Who is your favorite robot in science fiction books or movies?
Wally in R two D two,
where they were able to convey such an incredible degree of intent
emotion and kind of character attachment without having
any language whatsoever. Um, and just purely through the emotion,
richness of emotion interactions. So those were fantastic. And then, uh,
the Terminator series just like really ruined my pretty wide range. Right. Uh,
but, uh, I kind of love this, uh,
dynamic where you have this like incredible Terminator itself that,
that Arnold played. But, uh, and then he was kind of like the inferior,
like previous generation version that was like totally outmatched, uh, you know,
in terms of kind of specs by the new one, but, you know,
still kind of like El zone. And so it was kind of interesting where you,
you realize how many,
how many levels there are on the spectrum from human to kind of potentials and
AI and robotics to futures. And so, yeah, that movie really,
as much as it was like kind of a dark world in a way was actually fascinating,
gets the imagination.
Going well from an engineering perspective, both the movies you mentioned, uh,
Wally and, uh, Terminator. Uh, the first one is probably achievable,
you know, humanoid robot,
maybe not with like the realism in terms of skin and so on,
but that humanoid form, we have that humanoid form. It seems like a compelling,
maybe the challenges that's super expensive to, to build,
but you can imagine maybe not a machine of war. Yeah.
But you can imagine terminated type robots walking around. Yeah.
And then that same, obviously with WIES you've basically,
so for people who don't know you, uh, created the company Anky that created, uh,
a small robot with a big personality called Osmo, that just,
it does exactly what Wally does,
which is somehow with very few basic visual tools
is able to communicate a depth of emotion. And that's fascinating. Uh,
but then again, the humanoid form is, uh, super compelling.
So like, uh, Cosmo is very distant from a humanoid form.
And then the Terminator has a humanoid formula.
You can imagine both of those actually being in our society.
It's true. And it's interesting because, um,
it was very intentional to go really far away from human form.
When you think about a character like Cosmo or like Wally, where, um,
you can completely rethink, uh, the constraints you on that character, um,
what tools you average and then how you actually create a personality, uh,
and a level of intelligence interactivity that actually matches the constraints
that you're under, whether it's, uh, mechanical or sensors or AI of the day.
This is why I almost, um,
I was always very surprised by how much energy people put towards trying to
replicate human form.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> in a robot because you actually take on some pretty
significant, um, kind of constraints and, and downsides when you do that.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, um,
the first of which is obviously the cost where it just the,
the articulation of a human body is just so like magical, um,
in both the precision,
as well as the dimensionality that to replicate that even in it CLO reasonably
close form takes a giant amount of joints and actuators and, uh, and motion and,
and, you know, sensors and coders and so forth. But then, um,
you're almost like setting an expectation that the closer you try to get to
human form, the more you expect the strengths to match.
And that's not the way AI works is there's places where you're way stronger and
there's places where you're weaker. And by moving away from human form,
you can actually, uh,
change the rules and embrace your strengths and bypass your weaknesses.
And at the same.
Time,
the human form like has way too many degree use of freedom to play with.
It's, it's kind of con counterintuitive just as you're saying,
but when you have fewer constraints,
it's almost harder to master the, the, the communication of emotion.
Like you see this with cartoons, like stick figures,
you can communicate quite a lot with just very minimal,
like two dots for eyes and align for, for a smile. I think it, like,
you can almost communicate arbitrary levels of emotion with just two dots and a
line. Yeah. And like, that's enough.
And if you focus on just that you can communicate the full range, and then you,
like, if you do that, then you can focus on the actual magic of, of,
uh, human and,
and dot line interaction versus all the engineering mess.
That's right. Like dimensionality, voice, all these sort of things.
They actually become a crutch yeah. Where you get lost in a search space almost.
Um, and so some of the best animators that we've worked with, um,
they almost like study when they come up, uh, you know, kind of in,
in building their expertise by forcing these, um,
projects where all you have is like a ball that can like kind of jump and
manipulate itself, or like really,
really like aggressive constraints where you're forced to kind of ex extract the
deepest level of motion. And so in a lot of ways, um, you know,
we thought when we thought about Cosmo, I was like, you're you're right.
Like our, if we had to like, describe it in like small phrase,
it was bringing a Pixar character to life in the real world. It's, uh, it's,
it's what we were going for. And, um, and in a lot of ways,
what was interesting is that with like Wally,
which we studied incredibly deeply, and in fact, some of our team were,
you know, kind of had worked previously at, um, at Pixar on our project. Um,
they intentionally constrained Wally as well, even though in an animated film,
you, you could do whatever you wanted to because it forced you to like really
saturate the smaller amount of dimensions, but, uh,
you sometimes end up getting a far more beautiful output, um,
because you're pushing at the extremes, um,
of this emotional space in a way that you just wouldn't because you get lost in
a surface area. Uh, if you have like thing that is just infinitely articulable.
So if we backtrack a little bit and, uh, you thought of Cosmo in 2011,
in 2013, actually, uh, designed and built it, what is Anky?
What is Cosmo, I guess, who is Cosmo? And, uh,
uh, what was the vision behind this incredible little.
Robot? We started, uh, on key back in,
like while we were still in graduate school. So myself and my two co-founders,
we were PhD students, uh, in the robotics Institute at Carnegie me. Um,
and so we were, uh, studying robotics, AI, machine learning, kind of different,
you know, different, uh, uh, areas.
One of my co-founders working on walking robots, uh, you know,
for a period of time. And so we all had a, um,
a bit of a really deep,
kinda a deeper passion for applications of robotics and AI, where, um,
there's like a spectrum where there's people that get like really fascinated by
the theory of AI and machine learning, robotics, where, um,
whether it gets applied in the near future or not is less of a kind of factor on
them, but they love the pursuit of the, like the challenge and that's necessary.
And there's a lot of incredible breakthroughs that happen there.
We're probably closer to the other end of the spectrum,
where we love the technology and the, um, and all the evolution of it.
But we were really driven by applications.
Like how can you really reinvent experiences and functionality and build value
that wouldn't have been possible without, um, these approaches and,
and that's what drove us.
And we had a kind of some experiences through previous jobs and internships
where we like got to see the applied side of robotics.
And at that time there was actually relatively few applications of robotics, um,
that were outside of, um, you know, pure research or industrial application,
um, military applications and so forth. There were very few outside of it.
So maybe, you know,
iRobot was like one exception and maybe there were a few others,
but for the most part, there weren't that many.
And so we got excited about consumer applications of robotics,
where you could leverage way higher levels of intelligence, um,
through software to create value and experiences that were just not possible,
um, in, in those fields today. Um,
and we saw kind of a, a pretty wide range of applications, um,
that varied in the complexity of what it would take to actually solve those.
And what we wanted to do was to commercialize this into a company,
but actually do a bottoms up approach where we could have a huge impact in a
space that was ripe to have an impact at that time,
and then build up off of that and move into other areas.
And entertainment became the place to start mm-hmm <affirmative> because, um,
you had relatively little innovation in a toy space, uh, an entertainment space.
You had these really rich, um, experiences and video games and, uh, and movies,
but there was like this chasm in between.
And so we thought that we could really reinvent that experience.
And there was a, a really fascinating transition,
technically that was happening at the time where the cost of components was
plummeting because of the mobile phone industry and then the smartphone
industry.
And so the cost of a micro controller of a camera of a motor of memory of
microphones cameras was dropping by orders of magnitude mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And then on top of that, with the iPhone coming out in 2000, uh,
I think it was 2007, I believe. Yeah, this is right. Um, you,
it started to become apparent within a couple of years that this could become a
really incredible interface device and the brain with much more computation
behind a physical world experience. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
that wouldn't have been possible previously. Um, and so, um,
we really got excited about that and how we push all the complexity from the
physical world into software, by using really an expensive components,
but putting huge amounts of complexity into the AI side.
And so Cosmo became our second product.
And then the one that we're probably most proud of the idea there was to create
a physical character that had enough understanding and awareness of the physical
world around it, and the context that mattered to feel like, uh,
like he was alive. Um, and, uh,
to be able to have these like emotional kind of connections and experiences with
people that you would typically only find, uh, inside of a movie.
And the motivation very much was, was Pixar. Like we had an incredible, uh,
respect and appreciation for what they were able to, um,
build in this like really beautiful fashion and film. Um,
but it was always like a, you know, one, it was virtual and two,
it was like a story on rails that had no interactivity to it.